# What is Pocal?

It's a combination of browser-plugins and Node.js server working in tandem. The browser plugin, which itself is generated by the server, either carries out actions on its own or sends the request to server for further processing (synchronously or asynchronously).

One of the two plugins is a [Greasemonkey userscript] which captures link clicks before they're processed by the browser and modifies them in place so that the browser carries out the action with the modified link instead of the original one. It may also send this request to the server for processing.

<sup>Side-note: it's the same technique employed by Google on its search result pages, among many other popular sites like reddit, to keep track of what links users click on.</sup>

**Note**: The server runs on \*your\* computer, nothing leaves it without your doing.

With this you can modify the link into another link, or you may specify an instruction that invokes the server and it responds with an appropriate task, like respond with a modified URL that requires fetching some other website that could only be done via server intervention (can't be done on client-side alone), or it may just be a side-effect action (like download a file simultaneously) while the client carries on with the url unchanged. Possibilities are endless!

Another plugin is an [OpenSearch plugin] that redirects search queries to the server. This is a more direct way of getting the server involved. It could perform a simple task as turning a query like "r whatever" into "http://reddit.com/search?q=whatever" or it may also perform a more complicated task like downloading a youtube video. Again, possibilities are endless!

There's also a plugin architecture in place that lets more advanced users write their own tasks.

The server provides an easy web-based GUI to configure rules and other settings.

The userscript and custom search plugin are also served via the server itself.

